Good morning everyone,
welcome to session 433.
Please welcome software
engineer David McLeod.
Good morning.
Thank you for coming out.
I'm glad to see there's people here
interested in making custom HIViews.
That means you're getting our message
that HIView is the way to go forward
and you're ready to do it with us.
[Transcript missing]
You make them special by doing
whatever things you do on
the inside that we don't do.
And you present that specialty
through your user interface.
So almost everyone here has some
kind of custom user interface,
whether you're drawing directly into a
window or you're using a custom control,
you're using some other view system.
Like Power Plant, for example.
I'm trying to find a
nice way of saying that.
So people are going to
be moving to HIViews.
And you might have some
custom content already.
As you go forward,
you're going to need to have HIView.
HIView is the technology we're going
to use to move forward as we do
things like resolution independence,
as we add new features to the toolbox.
And you need to be there
with us to move forward.
Basically, today I'm going to go over
how to make a custom HIView.
It's going to be a primer
on how to make HIViews.
So we're going to learn how
to subclass an HIVobject,
how to create a custom HIView,
and just how to implement the
basic behaviors that make a view.
First, I'm going to give you a
little bit of background.
The whole HIV toolbox on the
inside is object oriented.
And HIViews are a subclass
of the main object,
the HI object.
All of the APIs associated with HIView
and HIObjects are object-oriented.
They use C interfaces and
Carbon events to do the communication
where the HIViews or HIObjects
are the classes and the Carbon Events are
the methods or messages.
And with those messages,
we put in Carbon Event parameters.
And that's how you pass parameters
to and from your subclasses.
So here it is.
HIObject is really our base class.
Everything's based off an HIObject.
And like I said,
there's some messages that
are associated with the class.
There's also some properties.
From that base class,
we have subclasses-- HIViews, windows,
menus.
There's a few other ones
I don't have up there,
like toolbars, et cetera.
But that's just to show that, you know,
HIobjects are the base class that
we use to inherit from to produce
different objects within the toolbox.
We're going to focus in on HIViews.
So, HIViews are the subclasses-- HIViews,
like I said, with all of our classes,
messages are the Carbon events,
and there's a few properties
associated with the subclass.
We use HIView to subclass to
make all of the views that
you associate with the system,
so like pop-up buttons, radio buttons,
check boxes, all of that.
And this is where you would
subclass to make your custom HIView.
Notably, you can also subclass an
existing subclass of an HIView.
So in this example,
I would subclass a push button and just
override some of the extra behaviors,
make my own custom kind of
push button that inherits
from the existing push button.
But I'm just going to focus on
subclassing HIView directly.
So a custom HIView.
is a subclass of HIObject
where you handle a few messages
associated with construction.
And it's also a subclass of HIView where
you handle a few messages that actually
produce the behaviors of your HIView.
And that's all that
makes up a custom HIView.
Understanding these concepts is sort
of key in understanding how to subclass
and make your own custom HIView.
So next I'm going to get into just how
to go about doing that subclassing.
First thing you're going to need
to do is register your subclass.
And that means handling those events
That are messages for the HI object
associated with doing construction,
doing destruction when we're
finished with the object,
and doing initialization.
After that, you're ready to instantiate.
That's all there is to it.
So here's an example of how to
register your subclass using the
HIObjectRegisterSubclass API.
The first parameter that's
really important is the
class ID of your subclass.
And that's a reverse domain string
that you send to HIToolbox to tell it,
To tell it how to identify your subclass.
And throughout the process,
that is how you identify
your subclass to HIToolbox.
That's how we know what
we're talking about.
Next, you want to tell it the base
class ID from which you're
going to be subclassing.
In today's examples where
I'm subclassing an HIView,
I'll be passing in the
base class ID of an HIView.
You can also use this to subclass
with the pop-up button's class
ID or directly from an HI object.
Notably, if you're subclassing
directly from an HI object,
you can leave this blank because
that's the base subclass.
And the last one I'm going to draw
attention to is the construct proc.
This is the event handler that's
going to be handling the events,
the construction events, the kEvent,
hIObject, construct, destruct,
and initialize events.
Here's an example in code of using it.
So it's just like any other Carbon event
handler that you've used before.
You set up a list of Carbon events
that you're interested in.
It's just a set of class event pairs.
In this case,
I'm interested in the KEvent
class HIObject class of events,
and I'm interested in
KEvent HIObject construct,
initialize, and destruct.
Next, you call hiobjectregister subclass,
and this is where the reverse domain
name class ID identifier comes into play.
It identifies uniquely
my subclass by this ID.
And you can see here in this example
that I'm subclassing from HIView
using the public K HIView class ID.
And I specify which handler is
going to be receiving these three
events that I'm interested in.
It's going to receive
them and handle them,
dispatch them out appropriately.
So here's an example of the meat of
what that event handler would look like.
I handle those three events
that I've registered for.
When I get the construct event,
I do something to handle construction.
Similarly,
with initialization and destruction,
I do something to handle those.
So I want to get into exactly what
you would do in those three cases
where you're handling those events.
First, construction.
It's very notable.
It's called directly by the
instantiation mechanism of HIObject.
It's not from an event handler stack.
And this is really important
because under normal circumstances
with Carbon event handlers,
you can call next event handler and let
some of the default behavior happen.
But there's no event
handler stack in place,
so you just can't do that.
Really bad things will happen.
When you get the construction event,
that's the time when your
subclass does its allocation or
instantiates maybe a C++ class.
Any of the allocation that's
going to occur happens here.
It's not time to do initialization
yet because things might
not be set up sufficiently.
You do that later on.
And the really-- I think this
is the only tricky concept in
the whole subclassing mechanism.
The keventparam
HIObjectInstance parameter
During the construction handling,
on the way in,
what you get is a base HIObjectRef.
That's what's been constructed so far
by the HIObject subclassing mechanism.
That's the ObjectRef that you're going
to have for the rest of the life of
the instantiation of your subclass.
During the construction handling,
on the way in,
what you get is a base HIObjectRef.
That's what's been constructed so far
by the HIObject subclassing mechanism.
That's the ObjectRef that you're going
to have for the rest of the life of
the instantiation of your subclass.
So on the way in,
it's that HI object ref.
On the way out,
you want to set the parameter
to whatever the instance data
is that you've allocated.
And that's important because from now on,
whenever your subclass is called,
that instance data is going
to be passed in as the user
data to your event handler.
And that's how you can get
the reference to what your
instance is in your subclass.
So here's an example of handling a
k-event HI object construction event.
Just a little reminder,
don't call Next Event Handler.
Bad stuff.
Bad stuff's going to happen.
I do some allocation.
I have a little data structure.
It's not really important what's in it.
I call it my view data.
The only important thing to note
is that I have a spot in there to
remember my HI object ref that I get
on the way in from construction.
I get that HIObjectRef from
KEVENT_PARAM HIObjectInstance,
and I store it in my allocation space,
the space that I've allocated.
And on the way out,
you can see that I've stored
that allocated instance data
back in and overwritten the
KEVENT_PARAM HIObjectInstance.
From now on,
whenever my event handler gets called,
I'm going to get that instance data,
and I can use it to
implement my subclass.
I like to talk about destruction first,
but I just kind of reordered a bit.
The destruction is going
to happen way at the end.
So before the destruction happens,
you're going to do initialization.
When you get a K event,
HIobject initialized event,
that means that construction
happened successfully.
The allocation is okay.
Everything is ready to go.
It's time to set things up.
When the initialization
event comes to you,
all of the initialization parameters
are set as Carbon Event parameters
in the incoming event.
So you can just extract those,
if there are any,
and do whatever you want with them.
Store them into your instance data or
set up things or do whatever you want.
This phase is optional.
Not everybody's going to
have instance initialization,
but actually I think it
would be pretty common.
You don't have to do it.
Nothing bad will happen.
I think I forgot to mention
with a construction event,
it's absolutely required.
If you don't do it,
no construction is going to
happen and the rest of the
presentation is not going to happen.
So you definitely have
to handle construction.
So here's an example of handling
the initialization event.
First of all,
you want to call next event handler.
That's important because it gives your
superclasses a chance to initialize.
If you're familiar with C++,
that's just like passing on
your constructor up to the
other superclass constructor.
So you've got to give your superclass
a chance to initialize itself as well.
You check the return value from the call
next event handler and make sure that
your superclass initialized successfully,
because if it didn't,
you certainly aren't
really going to need to.
And then it's time to handle
your own initialization.
Like I said,
you just use the incoming event,
you extract parameters from
it using GetEventParameter,
and do whatever you want with them.
And this is also a time when you
can modify the initialization
event and set things like your
feature bits and that sort of thing.
Example of it here.
Lastly, after everything's done and
everything's being torn down,
you'll get a destruction event.
Again, this is not being called
from the normal event stack,
so don't call NextEventHandler.
Even if we did do that and we
allowed you to tell your parents to
destruct themselves before you did,
that would be a very bad thing.
It's like calling delete parent
in your C++ destruct method.
It's a bad idea.
This is not optional.
You have to handle your destruction.
To get rid of any allocated data.
If you don't handle this event,
Destruction will fail.
And when you do destruction,
that's your time to deallocate
anything you allocated during
the construction phase.
If you allocated some memory or if
you instantiated a C++ subclass,
it's time for you to either free the
memory or delete the C++ subclass.
Again, emphasizing don't call
Next Event Handler.
I say it lots in here.
It's going to be in the
sample code that you see.
It's going to be in Curt's demo.
You just don't want to do it.
It's also in the header docs.
Just don't call Next Event Handler
when you're doing
construction and destruction.
And as you can see,
this is just my time to
clean up my allocated data.
One important note here is that
you will get a destruct event if
initialization was unsuccessful.
So you have to be able to handle
destroying a partially initialized
or an uninitialized subclass.
So if construction went okay
but initialization didn't,
you'll still get a destruct event,
so you have that
opportunity to deallocate.
That's pretty much it.
So after you install that event handler,
you're ready to instantiate.
So you have to register the subclass
using that API I mentioned previously.
And to do that,
you create an initialization event.
To actually instantiate,
you create an initialization event,
stuff any parameters in that
you want to end up being passed
to your subclass instantiation,
and then call hi object create
using that initialization
event that you just created.
Here's an example of that.
I create an event.
It's a kEvent class HIObject,
kEvent HIObject initialize event.
It's a real standard
way of making an event.
I made up a fake value here
to stuff into the event.
The initialization event has a parameter.
It's just a float I push in there.
And I call hiObjectCreate.
And you'll note here that hiObjectCreate
takes the reverse domain class
ID that I registered my class with.
That's how you tell Toolbox, hey,
that's the thing I registered.
That's how I want you to
instantiate right now.
So that's how you get your subclass
instance to be the one you want.
I'd show you a demo.
There's not much to demo yet.
You've just made an instance
that doesn't do anything.
It's not--that's just how to
make--that's just how to make
a subclass of an HI object.
It's not in anything.
It doesn't draw.
It doesn't have any behavior
or anything like that.
So I'm not going to show you anything.
To give you something to show,
you probably want to implement
the simple view behavior.
Simple view behaviors are drawing,
hit testing, clicking, keyboard handling,
and definitely accessibility.
These are the simple basic
behaviors that you're going to
want in almost every HIView.
And really, they just all map onto either
directly onto a Carbon event or
onto a class of Carbon events.
Really straightforward.
So say you wanted to add some
drawing to your HIView subclass.
You want to handle the
K event control draw event.
Really important concept with HIView
drawing is getting this event,
that's the only place you ever draw.
You don't draw willy-nilly.
You invalidate your views,
and then when the appropriate time comes,
the view system will ask you to draw.
And that's how we achieve the
compositing and the efficient drawing.
So like I said up here,
validation is your friend.
You want to invalidate and
then let the toolbox tell you
when a good time to draw is.
When you get the draw event,
inside the event there's a CGContextRef,
so you can extract that as
a parameter of the event.
And the nice thing
about the CGContextRef,
it's all set up for you.
It's all clipped.
It's transformed properly.
It might be scaled if we're in
the future sometime and we're
doing resolution independence.
You don't have to worry about anything
like the Z order and you definitely
don't have to erase behind like you did
with QuickDraw because painting is all
happening in a nice composited stack.
This concept also gives you
a context that is top left.
Sorry, this list is left for me up here.
It's all top left.
You might not be used to that if
you've been making your own context
in an event handler so far with a
user pane or that kind of thing.
So the context is
already top left for you.
And then you just go ahead and
do whatever kind of drawing you
want in there with Quartz and
get your cool rendering effects.
Adding a draw event handler is very easy.
You just extend the -- this is the
class event list that I had before.
I've just extended it by
putting a kEvent class control,
kEvent control draw event onto it.
And I register the handler
the same as I did before.
And then you change your handler so
that it handles the KFN class control,
KFN control draw.
And then you do your drawing there.
Here's the meat of what a
draw handler would look like.
So basically,
extract the CG context ref out of
the event using GetEventParameter.
I have the reference to my HIView
that gets passed every time
the event handler is called,
so I use that to get my view
ref and I get the bounds of it,
and I just do some drawing.
This simple drawing here does
a translucent red rectangle,
I think.
That's it.
You know, you'd have a nice simple
HIView that draws a rectangle.
You wouldn't actually see it though.
I stuck this in here.
This is an important step.
If you were to just instantiate now,
you wouldn't see anything because
that HIView has no parent.
It's just off in ether somewhere.
You need to add it to a window or add
it as a subview of a view in a window.
So you want to either add it
to the content view of a window
or some kind of parent view.
And you also need to make it visible.
It's made initially
invisible for efficiency.
If you create it and then
after you create it you want
to set a bunch of things,
you don't want something to happen
to it and make it redraw over and
over while you're setting it up.
So it's created initially invisible.
You set it up, you know,
set the control value or whatever
you're going to do on it.
And then you make it visible.
And only after you make it
visible are you going to see it.
This is really one of the big
hurdles that people hit when
they first make an HIView.
It's like, I made it.
It's not showing up.
Where is it?
You have to take these steps.
They're very important.
It's very common that they're forgotten.
It's one of the questions we
answer or you guys help us answer
on the Carbon Dev List often.
So I'd like to ask Curt to come
up and just go through some of
the things I showed to instantiate
a simple HIView subclass.
Curt?
Thank you, David.
So if we could switch
to the demo machine,
please.
So basically what we're going to look at
here is just the HIView test application.
Now this is just a sample code.
It's available in
developer examples Carbon.
But I want to walk through just making
a very simple subclass of HIView
that does just a simple drawing.
So let's go about looking how we do this.
We're going to define HITestViewRegister.
And during application initialization,
this function will be called because
we need to register this subclass
with the HIObject subclassing system.
And then we need to specify
that we're going to handle
these HI object specific events.
So, construct, initialize, and destruct.
Now, as David mentioned,
construct and destruct are required.
If you don't specify these,
registration will actually fail.
And then,
HI object initialization is optional,
but as David also mentioned,
that's probably where you'll
handle most of your initialization.
So you can see how the HIObject
specific events and the control,
which are the view of specific events,
are kind of globbed together.
This is all in the event list
that we're going to pass into the
HIObject register subclass API.
And for now,
we're just going to be looking
at the KEventControl draw.
Next, we register the subclass.
As David mentioned,
we pass in our class ID,
which we defined as "HIV"
Next, we register the subclass.
As David mentioned,
we pass in our class ID,
which we defined as "HIV"
We give it its construct practice.
This is going to be our event handler.
We're basically telling the event system
that these are the events that we're
interested in with this event list.
And when one of these events happens,
to call our callback,
which is the view handler.
And basically, this whole section is
in a one-shot section.
And what we're doing there is
we define a static class ref.
And so if you call this
particular function,
if the application were to call this
particular function more than once,
the registration would
happen multiple times.
So basically, we just turn that one shot.
Then, after it's registered and the
application wants to instantiate
an instance of this class,
Our handler is then called.
Basically, as David mentioned,
we need to handle, deconstruct,
and destruct events.
and as you know, it's don't call,
call next event handler here.
And then we'll also be
handling initialized as well.
So when the instance is
to be constructed-- oh,
and I should also mention that
we're going to be handling the draw.
So after the instance is constructed
and then embedded into a view hierarchy,
we'll also get this draw event as well.
And since we're doing this as a
C interface-based method of doing this,
first all of the data is going to
be allocated in the construct event.
And then we'll just operate
on that data as well later on.
Here, and this is where it is.
So when we construct the instance,
we go ahead and malloc our data.
Now, as David mentioned,
it doesn't really matter for the purposes
of this example what that data is,
other than that we're going to be
grabbing the HI object instance
and stuffing it into our data.
And then finally, before returning,
we stuff a void pointer
argument into the event.
And this is how we'll reference or grab
our data out of the events as always.
our draw and tracking and other
types of event handlers are called.
After construction has
successfully happened,
we'll get called to initialize.
And so in our event handler,
we'll get the
KEventHIObjectInitializeEvent,
which we then call this function for.
And whoever's called us has set
up some parameters in the event.
And so we grab those parameters out,
and we stuff them into our data store.
And basically, for this example,
we're just going to be
drawing a rectangle,
and we want to know the RGB values.
So somebody stuffed
RGB values into the event.
We're grabbing them out here and
stuffing them into our instance data.
And then after we use this instance,
it's going to be drawing,
the user's going to be tracking,
all this stuff is going to happen.
When we need to tear it down,
we get an HIObject destruct event.
And in that case,
we just call our function to destruct it,
and we just free our data store
for this particular object.
Once it's correctly instantiated,
you can embed it into your view
hierarchy and make it visible.
And at that point,
the draw message is going to
get sent to your instance.
And so here,
we're doing some very simple operation.
We're going to set up to
draw a particular rectangle.
And this is all basically
designed to have different colors,
whether it's selected or whether
we're tracking or anything
at that particular point.
then we just draw that rectangle.
So let's actually see this in action.
It's very simple.
So what we did in our main function
was we registered this subclass.
We created a construct event
and then called hiObjectCreate,
the instantiated object.
We embedded that into this window.
And the subclassing
system tells us to draw.
And that's where we draw with
the context that it's given us.
That's basically it for
this particular example.
Thank you, Curt.
If we can switch back to the slides.
Well, that's just a simple HIView.
All of our examples today are simple.
You know, we could have written some
demo to do some fancy stuff,
but all the focus would have been
on how we did the fancy drawing,
how we did the fancy tracking.
What we chose to do instead is use
the simple test HIView stuff that's
available as sample code right now.
You probably even have it on your
machine if you have a machine here.
It's in Developer Examples something
something.
If you search for
"HITestView," you'll find it.
So Curt went through that,
but handling events like
that and registering them,
you're doing the same
thing over and over.
It's just, you know,
we put some events in a list,
and then you've got to handle
the event and dispatch it
and take the parameters out,
and you're just going to be doing
the same things over and over.
Especially for event,
for HIobject subclassing,
all those events are always the same.
You're always going to be
doing the very same thing,
so it's just a boilerplate.
And that's kind of boring.
You're just going to be, like I said,
doing the same things over and over.
We don't do that on the
inside of HIToolbox.
We actually have a C++ framework,
because this is no fun.
And that's why we made HIFramework.
So HIFramework is a lightweight
C++ framework for doing the
subclassing of HI objects.
and making custom HIViews.
And it's really just a subset of what
we use internally to make our own
Custom HIViews like,
well they're not custom for you
as they're system HIViews like
the push button for example.
We use a very similar
framework internally.
T-Object wraps the HIObject class.
Something notable about that is T-Object
doesn't exist in the public HI framework.
We're going to be revving that next week.
And it's just something we added in,
and I'll show you why in a minute.
T-View wraps HIView.
T-Object wraps the HIObject class.
Something notable about that is T-Object
doesn't exist in the public HI framework.
We're going to be revving that next week.
And it's just something we added in,
and I'll show you why in a minute.
T-View wraps HIView.
And basically, all you have to do is
override a few methods,
a few base methods,
and you will be able to
subclass very quickly.
So there's a register class method,
which I'll show.
There's a static construct method,
which you'll have to make.
And that's so that you can
specifically make your subclass
instantiation statically.
And you also have to override getKind.
It's a pure virtual method so that
we can identify what kind it is.
And then after that,
you only have to handle
what is interesting to you.
You don't have to worry
about the Carbon events,
you just go override certain methods,
like a draw method,
or some kind of accessibility method,
or keyboard handling, or whatever.
So here's an example of
overriding tObjectRegister class.
You can see here this only happens once,
so there's a static that's stored.
This is a static route--
this is a static--
So that you don't re-register
it over and over and over.
You only need to register with it once.
Again, you see that reverse domain name
class ID that I talked about before.
And you have to specify what the static
construct method is for your subclass.
In this case, it's almost always going
to be called construct,
and it's a static method
in your C++ subclass.
Here's an example of overriding
the Draw Event Handler.
You can see that there's a
couple of parameters coming in.
Those have been conveniently extracted
from you from the Carbon Events.
Here you get the nicely clipped,
transformed CG context.
This is the exact same drawing
as happened in my previous
sample code I put up here.
There's a bounds
accesser because I have a
I clearly have a reference
to my tview instance.
I just get its bounds and I draw it.
So Curt's going to come back up and
he's going to show you that same class,
re-implemented using HIFramework.
Curt?
Thank you.
So basically, yeah,
we're just going to re-implement
this using the HI framework,
which is so much easier.
I mean,
you probably saw some of the demos
that we did in our sessions yesterday.
And we always use the HI framework
just because it's quick,
right?
So here, we define our class ID,
which is--this is the ID that
indicates or identifies our class
to the HIObject subclassing system.
Then we also implement the
GitKind as he mentioned.
It's a pure virtual method that we have
to override and that's so the system can
identify what kind of instance you are.
And then register class.
Now, if you remember when we called
hiobject register subclass,
there was this huge function.
We had to add the whole parameter list.
And then we called
hiobject register subclass.
This is just the same concept,
but much simpler.
Like I mentioned, we had the one shot.
This is now all it is.
We specify the class ID,
which we defined at the top of this file.
And then we specify a construct proc.
Now, this is important because
when the application needs
to instantiate your object,
it needs to call something
to do that instantiation,
and that's this construct proc,
which will get called.
So when someone calls HIObject,
construct,
or create using your class ID and
it needs to instantiate your object,
this--
This handler is going to get called.
And this is a class method.
So it's depending on your method.
So you need to create an
instance of your class.
And this is really important.
This is where you actually instantiate
your object by calling new on your view.
After that,
once you embed it into your view
hierarchy and make it visible,
your draw method is called.
This is the same thing that we did
in the previous example using C,
but we don't have to do all the
extraction from the Carbon event
in order to get the context and the
region that we should be drawing into.
It's all passed into us,
and then we go ahead
and we do our switching,
and we can change the color
based on active state or
whatever at that particular time.
And as David mentioned, drawing,
regardless of whether you're doing
it in HIFrame or C++ or in C,
should only be done in your draw handler.
And if you need to force
drawing in some other place,
like you're tracking the control,
you wouldn't draw at
those particular points.
You would invalidate.
So the next time through the event
system where it's going to draw,
it will call this function
to do all your drawing.
So only draw here.
That's it.
So if we want to go ahead and run that.
We can see that this
is our old C-based one,
and this is our C++ based
one using HIFramework.
It was a lot less code,
really easy setup, and boom, it's there.
Thanks, Dave.
DAVID MOLEN: Thank you, Curt.
So hopefully that shows some of
the simplicity of the HI Framework.
I really highly recommend using it.
Even if you make one first
in C and then try one using
the HI Framework afterwards,
it will really help you
understand the concepts.
And once you understand the concepts,
you'll just love them and
you'll really want to use them.
So let's go over a bit more of the basic
behavior that's available to override,
like click handling.
Click handling has a few
events associated with it.
First, you want to hit Test.
That determines if a point is within
a part or within your whole view.
Depends how many parts.
Maybe if you only have one part,
it might be your whole view.
This is not time to handle click.
You get asked for hit testing just to
see if a point is within your view.
It could be used for other things.
It's not time to do
any click handling yet.
One really important and nice point
about doing k-event control hit tests,
if you contrast it to
doing hit testing with,
say, a control definition,
is that the hit testing
can have multiple parts.
This doesn't just say hit or not hit.
And that means that the default
tracking can track individual
parts of your control easily,
your custom HIView easily.
And it was a little harder to do with
You can still do custom
tracking if you want.
You just handle the
Cave-In Control Track event and
do your custom tracking there
and validate to do redrawing,
whatever you want.
Another important part of doing
click handling is if the value
changes or the highlight changes,
you probably want to handle that.
You'll get a message that says
that they have changed and you will
probably want to invalidate so that
you appear different when you're
being clicked or when you're being
tracked or if your highlight changes.
And eventually,
when someone does do a mouse-up
and they do click on your view,
you'll get a Cave-In Control Hit event.
That means you've been clicked.
Then it's time to handle a click.
HI Framework Click Handling.
All it does is take those Carbon events,
take out a few Carbon event parameters,
and to do the Click Handling,
all you have to do then
is override a few methods.
If you're interested in
overriding the hit testing,
you do the hit testing.
Tracking is available.
You can do the highlight change
or value change overriding to do
whatever you want when those change,
as well as Control Hit.
Here's an example of
overriding a hit test in TView.
Tried to make a little more
interesting code snippet.
This one here, it goes and it gets
the bounds of my view,
divides it into four,
and it tells you which one
of the four quadrants gets
clicked and returns that part.
Everything else is
handled by HIFramework.
It puts the part back into--
it does a set event parameter,
and it goes back into the
view system just fine.
Here's an example of
overriding Control Hit.
What do you do when someone
clicks on your control?
If it's a simple control,
generally you'll just want to set your
value to whatever the incoming part was.
Say I had that four quadrant
view I just mentioned.
My value would be maybe one, two, three,
four,
depending on which quadrant was hit.
Interestingly here,
you always want to return
event not handled error.
And that's so that you can let the
rest of the system handle the event.
And that does things like
sending out the command ID.
So if you have a command ID associated
with your view or some other client
of your custom view is using it
and associates a command ID for
it and is expecting to receive it,
you have to return event not
handled error so that the system
knows that it's got to keep on
processing it and do that for you.
You can also override
the change handlers.
They're generally very simple.
If your value changes,
you want to invalidate so
that you draw later to reflect
how your value has changed.
Similarly with the highlight change,
you want to invalidate so later on
when it's the appropriate time to draw,
you can draw a highlight differently.
That's really quite common.
There's actually a couple of
auto-invalidation convenience
bits that you can set on a
view in the HI framework.
To tell it that you automatically
want to invalidate when the value
changes or when the highlight changes.
Similarly, there's also a few bits for
automatic invalidation when
your activation changes,
enable state changes,
or if someone changes your title.
Next kind of basic behavior,
keyboard handling, someone starts typing.
This is all done through the KEVENT class
text input class of Carbon events,
and most specifically the KEVENT text
input Unicode for key event.
You'll get a Unicode value that
indicates which key has been pressed.
Previously you might have been doing
some raw event handling and doing a
Keydown or RawKeydown or whatever.
I don't even remember anymore,
but this is what I use.
To use that in an HI framework,
you just got to override
the text input method.
One important note here is that you
probably want to deal with special keys.
So if someone presses Command period,
you might want to pass that off
so the cancel happens properly.
Or if someone presses Enter or Return,
you might want to pass it off so that
the default button gets handled properly.
Here's an example of
overriding text input.
It's quite simple.
It's a little bit different than the
other ones because you're actually
getting a whole class of events here.
So you have to extract the event
kind out of the incoming event.
Make sure it's a KEvent text input
Unicode for KEvent that you extract,
that's coming in so
that you can act on it.
And then you just get
the parameter out of it.
This example here looks a little
bit different than GetEventParameter
because it's using the tcarbon
event convenience functions.
So you get the
keventparam_text_input_send_text
out of the event and
then you do whatever with it.
And remembering to handle those
special keys if you need to.
And the last basic behavior
you want your control to have,
your custom view to have,
is to be accessible.
It allows an external application
like VoiceOver to control your app.
And it really is as important as
the other ways of manipulating your
view because someone that can't use
a mouse or can't use a keyboard,
this is the way they're going
to be using your application
through this accessibility layer.
It's all implemented like Carbon events,
just like everything else.
And there are a few events,
and they look a little daunting at first,
because Guy likes to write
really long event names.
But other than that,
it's just setting a few attributes,
like what the role is
and that sort of thing.
And it's just generally describing your
view so that it can be presented to
a user that's not using a keyboard or
not being able to visually perceive it.
A guy covered this yesterday morning
in an excellent session that hopefully
you can review somehow through the...
I don't know how you guys get the
sessions after they've already run.
I think there's DVDs or whatever coming.
I saw a video camera on him.
So if you can get at that content,
it's really, really good.
And it's really quite key
to have the basic behavior
of being an accessible view.
So like I said,
there's a class of events,
K of N class accessibility,
K of N accessible, get child at point,
get all attribute names,
get named attributes.
Those are all just
describing what your view is.
And it's just really taking some CF types
and pushing them into a CFDictionary,
a CFArray.
And KVN, Accessible Perform Named Action.
That's how the external application
can tell your view to do its thing.
All of those map directly on-- look,
it's just like a one-to-one
mapping-- directly on to some
methods that we have in tObject.
The names are very similar.
You'll be able to find them easily.
This is where earlier on I mentioned
that we added tObject to hiframework.
And the reason we added a tObject
class is because the accessibility
doesn't just apply to HIViews.
It applies more generally to hIobjects.
So we put them in tObject because
accessibility applies to windows
and menus and toolbars and whatever
other subclasses of hIobject.
And that's the layer that
we have to provide it at.
So here's an example of overriding
one of the accessibility methods,
getAccessibleAttributeNames.
There's a lot of
dependency on your parent
[Transcript missing]
You can allow your parent a
chance to fill in some of the
accessibility information for you.
And what you do is you call
Next Event Handler to let your parent
event fill in as much as it can.
After that comes back successfully,
that's your turn to fill in some
parameters to describe the value
attribute or the role attribute.
This is the time that your
view gets to describe itself.
And overall,
that's a basic Custom HIView.
You just have those five basic behaviors.
Some of them, you know,
you might not have mouse handling.
You might just be displaying
a bar graph or something.
You might not have keyboard handling
because there's no text input.
But you're probably
going to have drawing,
and I'd highly recommend
having accessibility.
You probably want to add a few more
things to it just to make it fancy.
Before I get into that,
I'd just like to go over some
key areas so that you can
make a good custom HIView.
So I'm going to cover opaque region,
what that means as far as
drawing performance goes,
as well as doing some limited drawing.
Opaque region, I'll show in a minute,
lets you describe what parts of
your view are completely opaque.
And limited drawing lets the view system
tell you to only draw parts of your
view so you don't have to draw as much,
maybe not do as many calculations,
and in so doing be a
little bit more efficient.
And actually there's a feature bit,
KHIView does not draw.
If your view is just some
kind of containment view
and it doesn't draw at all,
if we have this bit,
we can be ultimately efficient as
far as drawing goes and just never,
ever tell you to draw.
So the opaque region.
That's your chance to describe to
the view subsystem and tell it which
part of you is completely opaque.
That means you can't see any
of the pixels behind you.
And since none of the pixels
behind you can be seen,
we shouldn't bother drawing them.
So that lets everything
behind you be more efficient,
it lets everything be more efficient,
and it lets your whole
application be more efficient.
It could be some subpart of your HIView.
In the example I mentioned earlier
where I had some quadrants with 1,
2, 3, 4, maybe the highlight changed
from quadrant 2 to quadrant 3,
and I just have to redraw
quadrant 2 and quadrant 3 because
1 and 4 are still the same.
It could be your whole view,
like in the square we were drawing,
or if you're drawing a
bar graph or something.
And the performance gain, like I said,
is that nobody behind you has to
draw if you're obscuring them.
None of the obscured content has to draw.
I think I mixed in something
when I said the quadrants there.
I'll cover that in a second
with the limited drawing.
Sorry.
So to feedback about what
your opaque region is,
you've got the
KEventControlGetRegion event.
And I can do the compare and contrast.
You just override the getRegion
method in HIFramework.
And watch for the request
for the opaque part.
All you have to do is report
that region that's fully opaque.
Here's an example of doing it.
You see the incoming part.
It's already been extracted
out for you by HIView.
And you look for the opaque meta part.
In this case, it's just a full rectangle
of the whole view.
That means anything that's behind
the view doesn't have to be drawn.
Anything that doesn't have to draw
makes your application more efficient.
Limited drawing.
Caveman Control Draw on the way in
has a parameter which is a region
that describes which is the dirty
area that needs to be redrawn.
So you don't have to redraw everything,
you just have to draw that dirty area.
Now is when my quadrant example applies.
If the highlight changes
from one quadrant to another,
you don't have to draw all of them,
just the two that changed.
So you just extract out the region
using the k-event-param region handle.
And you just limit your drawing to that.
Nice thing is,
TViewDraw already does that for you.
It takes that limit region out,
and it passes it in.
So here's an example of using
the incoming limit region.
I tried to write some sample code,
but you run out of space pretty
fast when the font is that big.
So basically,
you would just cycle through your parts,
check to see if that limit
region intersects the parts,
and you only draw the
ones that intersect.
In that quadrant example,
I would just go through them and check.
The important caveat here is that
if all the machinery of checking
to see if this intersects and
that intersects takes too long,
you might just want to draw
entirely and not do this.
It might be more efficient just
to draw everything and the clip
will take care of it and not
worry about doing this machinery.
Next thing you'll probably want to
do is add some kind of animation.
Everybody wants animation in their views.
They always look nice that way.
Because everybody loves
pulsing push buttons,
right?
So the way you do that,
you don't install any sort of idle
loops or do anything like that.
All you have to do is install a
CarbonEvent timer that calls a timer
function in your view subclass and does
an invalidation of some sort to tell your
view when it's appropriate time to draw,
draw in that newly animated state.
It's important to remember to remove
that timer when you destroy your
view because there will be a timer
in place that's maybe got a reference
to your view and if it destroys it,
the timer doesn't stop firing
and it will try and reference
a view that's destroyed.
So you want to keep track of
that Carbon Event Timer and
when your view gets destroyed,
you want to remove that Event Timer.
And just to be efficient,
you don't ever want to animate
when your view is invisible.
What's the point?
Here's a full animation sample.
Well, most of it.
You can see here that I installed
an event loop timer during
the initialization phase
of my HIView instantiation.
I installed an event loop timer
that draws 30 times a second.
You don't want to do this too
often if the user's not going
to be able to perceive it.
And that event loop timer,
I tell it what the static callback is,
and that's my event handler,
and also pass an instance so
it can identify which of the
view subclass instantiations
is actually being animated.
Later on,
when the event handler gets called,
it's going to be past that
instance so that it knows.
So here's the,
this does the actual animation.
That's a static timer,
static call that gets called.
This is a static entry
point into your class,
so you have to extract your
instantiation and then access it.
So that's what the casting of my
view does there with the user data.
And then you do whatever
changed in your animation.
You know,
you advanced one frame or you moved
something in your implementation,
however you're doing your animation.
And then you invalidate the view.
So that just calls an
API underneath an HIView framework
called HIViewSetNeedsDisplay.
And it lets the view system
know that at the appropriate
time in the event loop cycle,
when it's time to draw,
that view needs to be redrawn.
It's also very easy to add any other
additional behaviors that you want,
like drag and drop.
It's just overriding some Carbon events,
and there's facilities for
using that in the HI framework.
Focus handling, scroll to here,
other parts and bounds, size reporting,
and size constraints.
Size constraints are what you use to
describe what the size of your view
is when you're using it in a toolbar.
All of that is just a matter
of handling some Carbon events,
returning the appropriate parameters,
and they're all wrapped
up in the HI framework,
and you can just override the appropriate
method to get these additional behaviors.
Lastly,
you probably want to instantiate from
A nib, one of these custom HIViews.
You don't want to make it
programmatically every time.
It's really easy to do that.
The only important part is that you have
to register your view before you actually
do the instantiation of your nib.
So you just use the HIView widget in IB.
In the widget panel,
the orange box says HIView in it.
Drag it into your window.
You bring up the info panel and
the attributes pane of that.
You just set the class ID to that string
that we've been using over and over
when we registered our HIView subclass.
That's the unique identifier that tells
HIToolbox which subclass to instantiate.
You just go set that in there.
And when the Nib is loaded,
all the construction routines are called.
And it's just like you
created programmatically.
The really important part there is that
you must register before you instantiate
or else nothing's going to happen.
It's not a recognizable subclass
to HIToolbox until you register.
So I've shown you, custom HIViews are
really easy to implement.
It's just some HIobject subclassing.
And it all uses Carbon events,
which you're familiar with.
You just install Carbon event handlers.
And if you use HIFramework,
it makes it very simple.
I can pop out a custom view really,
really fast,
making the sample code or making
any custom pieces for myself.
Much easier than doing really,
really custom UI and
drawing into the window.
Or it's even easier than doing
a custom control definition.
It's extremely easy to make a subclass
using HIFramework and HIView subclassing.
So what I recommend you do is go
make a custom HIView right now.
Go download the HIFramework
sample code and just make one
independently of your application.
Make something fun for yourself
just so you can get a feel for it.
You might want to go through a
HITestView sample code so you can
compare the C APIs to the C++ ones.
But I guarantee you won't want to do that
boilerplate stuff over and over and over.
If you don't have to,
you can just override a few methods.
And once you see that,
you're going to see how easy
it is to take different pieces
of your application's UI,
make them into custom HIViews,
and make your whole application use
the HIView and compositing and do all
the new whizbang features that you need
to do to come with us into the future,
bring your application into the
future and not get left behind.
I heard one comment yesterday.
Someone said, well,
I'm not going to use HIView because
Apple comes out with these new
technologies and I get worried about it.
And I'm going to wait.
It's time to stop waiting.
We introduced this so you
could do it in Jaguar.
In Panther, all of our views are HIView.
Like, you're using HIView already.
Every single system
UI widget is an HIView.
Everything is HIView.
Even the closed boxes in the windows.
It's not like we're saying
we're going to do it.
We've done it and you
have to come with us.
And it's time to come now
by making a custom HIView.
A little bit more information.
You can hit the documents
in the reference library.
There's upgrading to the
MacOSX tool--HI Toolbox.
It's got some great information
there to bring you forward with us.
Introducing HIView goes into detail
some of the concepts I went over today.
TechNote 2074 is really good if
you're used to the Control Manager and
you want to get used to some of
these new HIView APIs that we have.
And I definitely recommend
going over the HIView sample
code that's available up there.
Go over HIFramework.
Check out some of the sample subclasses
that the engineers have written
and that are available to you.
It will really enlighten you
about what you need to do next.
You can send Xavier an email
directly if you want to.
There's his email address.